I have finished making features based on a weather api and monuments near the gps points. the the second to last feature is the weather feature. it is 1 if there is precipation and 0 if there is no precipation. the last feature is the label. it is 1 if there is high radiation and 0 if there is not high radiation. the rest of the features are monuments. they are 1 if the gps points are near the given monument and 0 if the point is not near the monument.

PROBLEMS

1. the weather data coming back from the api is not consistant with the data. The api says its raining when there is not high radiation and it says it is not raining when there is high radiation. This could be explained by people being inside when its raining, so there is not a high radiation value, But the only way to explain there being a high radaition value is if the gps points are by monuments or its raining. API says its not raining for all the data that has high radiation values and I dont think we missed that many monuments... so I can't explain it.

2. We missed quit a few "monuments." I have the alma matter and a few others I just added with Michael but he said that almost all the buildings on the engineering quad are "monuments" becuase they all emit radaition becuase they all have some sort of fancy radaition making machines. to solve this we need to add way points to the map on each building.

WHAT TO DO

we should focus on problem 2 becuase it is much easier to solve and hopfully we can have something by the end of the semester even if it doesnt have weather. to solve problem 2 Michael needs to add points to the map for all buildings that emit radaition or make a list and I will add the points. its probably easier if you just do it your self. I know its a lot of points but there is no way around it... We also need new training data. Micheal can you give me data where it doesnt rain and where people pass by all the monuments? If our training data does not have at least a few samples of each monument then the system will not work. look on the map for the gps points of the monuments then query the points form the data base and you should be able to get few points for each monument. the point of this is to get some data with out worrying about weather

I dont think we are going to be able to solve the weather problem... the only thing you could do is look at a stream of one persons data and say the gps points are not changing much so the person must be inside. but this requires a stream of one persons data which we do not have becuase we have samples of many peoples data... it also is going to have some error becuase people can move inside and stain still outside... its also a lot of work for not many reasults... if any one has any other ideas please share.

the features are in the data.txt file in the py folder on git
the map of points can be found at https://waypointer.info/

you guys can start playing with LB java and doing some learning. you can read in the features and run the algorithm on them but the results you get will not make much sence becuase the feature dont make sence... yet. but if you can read in the data and run the algorithm then when we fix the features you should not have to change anything.